= About Wincent =

== Welcome to wincent.com! ==

Hello! My name is Wincent Colaiuta. I founded the site in 1997, when it began as a simple homepage and eventually evolved into a weblog format hosted at wincent.org. By 2001 it was receiving over 50,000 daily visits; significant traffic by the standards of the day. On the strength of this success I obtained work as a paid columnist for both the Mac Observer and WebMonkey, before starting work as an independent programmer.

In November 2002, I publicly released my first commercial application, [http://synergy.wincent.com/ Synergy], an innovative iTunes menu bar controller and hot key interface. Since then, I have released numerous commercial and [[open source]] products.

== Development interests ==

My development interests include:

* '''Mac OS X software development:''' using the [[Cocoa]] frameworks and [[C]]/[[Objective-C]]. I also employ other languages (such as [[Ruby]] or [[shell]] scripting) and [[APIs]] when necessary.
* '''Web development:''' historically using [[Perl]] and later [[PHP]], but since late 2006 using [[Ruby]], [[Ruby on Rails]], and with the advent of [[AJAX]], [[JavaScript]] too.
* '''Automated software testing and automation in general:''' I am the author of [http://test.wincent.com/ WOTest], a [[unit-testing]] framework for [[Objective-C]]. I am a regular user of [[RSpec]] and to a lesser extent, [[Cucumber]]. I have a keen interest in the automation of testing and build processes.
* '''Parsing:''' I am the author of [/products/walrus Walrus], an [[object-oriented templating]] system which includes a memoizing [[PEG]] parser generator (for producing "[[packrat]]" parsers) called [/products/walrat Walrat], and also the [/products/wikitext Wikitext] gem, a fast wikitext-to-HTML translator written in [[C]] and packaged as a [[Ruby]] extension.
* '''Languages:''' Although my current "core" languages which I use every day are [[C]], [[Objective-C]], [[Ruby]] and perhaps [[JavaScript]], over the years I have worked regularly with [[Perl]], [[PHP]], [[Shell]], [[HTML]], [[CSS]], and I have a passing familiarity with [[Java]], [[Python]], [[Haskell]]. As a child and teenager I programmed in BASIC on the C64 and Amiga, and then programmed 3D game engines in 68000 assembly language. My first experience programming the Macintosh was, unfortunately, with REALbasic.
* '''Open source:''' I am an occasional contributor to, and a great admirer of, a number of [[open source]] projects. I believe that as time goes by the open source process itself will prove again and again that it is ''the'' way to produce software. I've released the source code for a number of my products and intend to continually reduce the proportion of my codebases that remains closed.

== On this site ==

You'll find a number of resources that I hope will be useful:

* '''[/products Product pages]:''' where you can find information about all of my products.
* '''[/blog The blog]:''' where I post articles on things related to development and make announcements; see also the [/twitter twitter] log.
* '''[/wiki The wiki]:''' where I keep notes on technical subjects.
* '''[/support Support pages]:''' where you'll find things like [/issues the issue tracker] and the [/forums forums].

Enjoy your visit, and please feel free to [mailto:win@wincent.com contact me] if you have any comments or questions.

Warm regards,

Wincent Colaiuta
